Hello and welcome back.
Today we'll be working we're order by function in Microsoft.
SAGAL Server Management Studio.
It's a very interesting function and it's certainly very needed when working with large tables of big
amounts of data and just wanting to make it all look a bit better be a bit easier to read and they just
so let's go ahead run an inquiry in which we will say that we want to select all from console games.
As you can see I'm working of console games database and inside of it I'm working with console games
table.
So if we go ahead just this a bit to see a bit better maybe just closer to here so that we can see our
table we can scroll around and the first thing that stands out is that game rank starts with 630.
And this is a very important fact that as you already know as we already told you databases are not
about organizing data nicely for you like Excel might do or any other explore or table organizing software.
Databases are about keeping data about storing data for you and about allowing you insane possibilities
to do with an insane amount of different functions you can use on this data in order to extract useful
information from it and analyze it any way you want.
This is why Microsoft server doesn't care two straws game rank in not a pretty way.
Also if you can go ahead you can see a lot of different columns that you might want to organize the
database by.
For example I want to see game names in alphabetical order.
I want to see Game years the oldest game that was released first or the newest game but it was released
first and also organized by global sales.
I want to see what games were most successful and what games were the least successful.
This is why Microsoft ask you all.
Justin Asgill in general we have the order by function so ordered by basically the cynics behind us
is you put order by then you say call them name that you want.
Let's begin with game rank.
The highest one.
And then you can run it straightaway.
So if you execute right now you can see that the game rank this first column is organized nice and neatly.
And if you scroll down you will never find a mistake.
It will be constantly going in the right order.
Now the thing with game rank is that it represents to us the global sales.
So global sales game rank are corresponding to each other which is very good and very interesting but
it's not that useful for us because now we can run one less order by function in this area.
On the other hand let's say I want to see what game came in last what game sold the least amount of
copies so I can order my game rank or in this case less order by global sales just to see what happens.
So order by global sales and then just run by this is already swopped because as you can see global
sales have zero in them.
And because when you try to send it meaning the lesser value goes first and the bigger value goes lost.
Global sales automatically put 0 number 1 0 1 0 1 number 2 and so on.
And our game rank 1 the Wii Sports will be at the very very end of this new table or of this table.
So now if we go ahead and this is by the way from the last tutorial if you remember why we had to specify
the global sales has to be non-zero has to be bigger than zero.
This is why because for this game it's old.
So little amount of copies that we just can't divide by zero.
And this Waianae sales percentage is still zero.
Here is now.
So now if we go ahead and write this in descending what will happen because we're organizing a global
sales.
It will basically flip the table back again.
Sorry about that.
Just executed.
I selected some part of it.
So if we exec you that you can see that flipped back and because eighty two point seventy four is bigger
than zero.
It now goes first and this is again.
So again rank and global sales again say mirror each other in the order by function.
So that's fun but let's go ahead and order it my platform name and see what happens.
So when you do platform name is going to have exited and now we can see that this was also a type in
ascending by default and sending.
So nothing will change.
But now we can see that the first value that gives us is nothing is no input.
Then it goes to numbers and after numbers it goes to letters in alphabetical order.
So as you can see here for example different platform and they have two or three letters in them and
have the first letter the same.
It will go first later on for medical ordered and second letter and for medical ordered and ferde want.
And so on.
Now if we run it by game name we will see another interesting part of what do we get when we have different
symbolist in the mix.
First of all give us nothing again not novels but nothing.
Then it will give us different symbols then that will give us numbers in ascending order.
So the lesser numbers go through a larger number of school last and then it starts giving us the letters.
This is already way better looking.
Table that you might see organized by game name.
This is the most common way of sorting different tables.
In most workplaces sorting them by game names or by game rings.
Also we can just go and practice.
So let's say I want you to do gaming.
I want you to organize this table by game you're in the standing order.
So go ahead do that.
It should take you no longer than one minute.
And here we go.
So all I need to do is change this to year change ascending descending execute it.
And so the games that were released latest will be displayed first and the games that were the oldest
will be displayed in the last sections.
So I think we took a look at different ways you can understand the stable work of this table by ordering
it by different columns.
I think the most useful one is game rank because it just gives you the lumber sales in a very interesting
way and just it looks nice and gives you a lot of information.
So again order by is not a difficult function.
It's a very simple one but it's a very powerful one because it can immediately show you any mistakes
you've made of data input any mistakes that data has any of the maladies anything that might concern
you later on you can already see it at the very early stages of working with different databases.
I hope you enjoy this lecture and I'll see you in the next one.